--------------------------------------------------------------
I.  INTRODUCTION
--------------------------------------------------------------

I began public service in San Marcos, Texas in 1989 as a Firefighter. In 1991,
I was tapped to be the San Marcos Fire Marshal. In 1998, I became the City
Emergency Management Coordinator in addition to the FM duties. In 2003, I was
commissioned to sit on the Capital Area Homeland Security Task Force
(representing 10 Central Texas counties), where I served as Chair of the task
force and Chair of the Technical Response Committee.  In 2006, I was tasked
with running a newly formed Marshals Office division managing Emergency
Management, Park Rangers, Fire Investigators, HAZMAT, Code Enforcement, Health
Department, Animal Control , and Court Marshal's. In 2003, I was placed on
the Governor's First Responder Advisory Committee to facilitate representation
for first responders to the state legislature. In November of 2016, I retired
from the City of San Marcos and moved to North Texas where I am currently
working with the Rowlett Fire Marshal's Office as a Deputy Fire Marshal.

"We are gathering background information to understand digital identity in
the emergency responder community. We want to find out how different
organizations are approaching":
a) What kinds of digital and in person credenitals FR's are using.
b) What kinds of websites and mobile applications FR's are using for work.
C) How much friction exists accessing digital resources.

1. When responding to a large, multi-jurisdictional disaster:

 a. Can you share your thoughts or concerns about the process for
 identifying people in person?

 b. Ability of incident commanders or others to use certain digital
 tools (mobile applications, websites)?

 c. How are skills and certifications of the responders l/e and fire currently
 shared? Interoperability for either in-state or out-of-state responders?

2. Are the sites/apps being used protected only by passwords, or are there
stronger authentication technologies in use?

3. Are there new digital applications that you believe will help you do
your job, that are becoming available within the next five years?

4. Are there any specific examples you can think of where
better tools for personal identification would have helped?

5. With regard to the communication of skills for first responders,
can you think of specific examples where non-interoperability or availability
of skills impeded a response or had an impact?

6. What are the different layers of tools being used between agencies:
law enforcement versus fire (personal identification, CAD).
