--------------------------------------------------------------
I.  INTRODUCTION
--------------------------------------------------------------

I began public service in San Marcos, Texas in 1989 as a Firefighter. In 1991,
I was tapped to be the San Marcos Fire Marshal. In 1998, I became the City
Emergency Management Coordinator in addition to the FM duties. In 2003, I was
commissioned to sit on the Capital Area Homeland Security Task Force
(representing 10 Central Texas counties), where I served as Chair of the task
force and Chair of the Technical Response Committee.  In 2006, I was tasked
with running a newly formed Marshals Office division managing Emergency
Management, Park Rangers, Fire Investigators, HAZMAT, Code Enforcement, Health
Department, Animal Control , and Court Marshal's. In 2003, I was placed on
the Governor's First Responder Advisory Committee to facilitate representation
for first responders to the state legislature. In November of 2016, I retired
from the City of San Marcos and moved to North Texas where I am currently
working with the Rowlett Fire Marshal's Office as a Deputy Fire Marshal.

"We are gathering background information to understand digital identity in
the emergency responder community. We want to find out how different
organizations are approaching":
a) What kinds of digital and in person credenitals FR's are using.
b) What kinds of websites and mobile applications FR's are using for work.
C) How much friction exists accessing digital resources.

1. When responding to a large, multi-jurisdictional disaster:

 a. Can you share your thoughts or concerns about the process for
 identifying people in person?

 Generally, you make a request to an agency,

 Sometimes manifest is delivered on arrival, provided to reception people,
 inputted into ICS forms and list.

 State issues:
 Four years ago we were very close to success in using DPS to facilitate
 issuance of First Responders. Also have access to state firewalls
 and database systems.

 State of Texas has disparate systems in every licensing agency, which
 don't communicate--that in and of itself is a huge undertaking.
 Nothing is the same.

 Should pay attention to it because TX has the largest and most numerous,
 finances, who's on scene, how long they were there, whether they were
 qualified. We want to get to having credentialing in the state.

 Financials is the biggest impact, understanding who was where when.
 Three years after, I have to say who was where when... worked well
 since 1973, we're millions in the whole because we didn't understand
 which people were there. People lose a lot of money because they did
 not track correctly in Texas.

 The death in which she was speaking was volunteer resources, when you
 have 10,000 people.

 b. Ability of incident commanders or others to use certain digital
 tools (mobile applications, websites)?

 GIS technology in the field, integrated with drone technology, LTE,
 areal and mapping. Proprietary systems are a big problem.

 c. How are skills and certifications of the responders l/e and fire currently
 shared? Interoperability for either in-state or out-of-state responders?

 Only very few nationally accepted credenitals. Law enforcement doesn't have one,
 but not all states subscribe to those programs. There is no 50 state equitability
 for any of those program. Red card in New Mexico, blue card.

 In Texas, we don't certify rescue people. There is no statewide skill database.

 Public health is not aligned structurally with first responders--public health
 has more counties then the first responder planning groups.

2. Are the sites/apps being used protected only by passwords, or are there
stronger authentication technologies in use?

Two factor-authentication is for DHS. CEGIS covers law enforcement, usually
require two factor.

Pencil and paper during an actual emergency. We have to assume that at any
moment that the systems will fail. There is very little confidentiality
in a distater.

3. Are there new digital applications that you believe will help you do
your job, that are becoming available within the next five years?

During initial response, there is a day or two of chaos. In the heat of
the battle, the financials, legal ramifications are out the window.
24-48 into it, you better have your technology aligned.

4. Are there any specific examples you can think of where
better tools for personal identification would have helped?

Even though it's clunky, we have personal accountability for everyone
that is there. 4000 employees. When 10,000 people showed up with
shovels afterward. Being able to calcualte their hours, what jobs
they did. The federal government will pay for volunteers. But if
can demonstrate that I put in 25% of volunteers--but I have to prove
it.

The government has not decided whether it will participate from
the federal system.

5. With regard to the communication of skills for first responders,
can you think of specific examples where non-interoperability or availability
of skills impeded a response or had an impact? For example in the military,
there are codes that convey skills and certifications.

The biggest technology problem we have is smart phones... bad battery life.
In a disaster, phones are very unreliable.

6. What are the different layers of tools being used between agencies:
law enforcement versus fire (personal identification, CAD).
